

This a model from the article:  
**An integrative dynamic model of brain energy metabolism using in vivo neurochemical measurements.**   
Cloutier M, Bolger FB, Lowry JP, Wellstead P. _J Comput Neurosci_ 2009
Dec;27(3):391-414 [19396534](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19396534) ,  
**Abstract:**   
An integrative, systems approach to the modelling of brain energy metabolism
is presented. Mechanisms such as glutamate cycling between neurons and
astrocytes and glycogen storage in astrocytes have been implemented. A unique
feature of the model is its calibration using in vivo data of brain glucose
and lactate from freely moving rats under various stimuli. The model has been
used to perform simulated perturbation experiments that show that glycogen
breakdown in astrocytes is significantly activated during sensory (tail pinch)
stimulation. This mechanism provides an additional input of energy substrate
during high consumption phases. By way of validation, data from the perfusion
of 50 microM propranolol in the rat brain was compared with the model outputs.
Propranolol affects the glucose dynamics during stimulation, and this was
accurately reproduced in the model by a reduction in the glycogen breakdown in
astrocytes. The model's predictive capacity was verified by using data from a
sensory stimulation (restraint) that was not used for model calibration.
Finally, a sensitivity analysis was conducted on the model parameters, this
showed that the control of energy metabolism and transport processes are
critical in the metabolic behaviour of cerebral tissue.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Cloutier M, Bolger FB, Lowry JP, Wellstead P.
(2009) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/d95ef71cf9f78796463024858efe6bd6)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

